---
layout: post
title: PHP & XAMPP
subtitle: Introduction and Setup
---

<div style="border-bottom:1px solid black">
<p>
PHP is a server-side scripting language designed for web development but also used as a general-purpose programming language. Originally created by Rasmus Lerdorf in 1994, PHP originally stood for Personal Home Page, but it now stands for the recursive backronym PHP: Hypertext Preprocessor.<br>
The PHP language evolved without a written formal specification or standard until 2014, leaving the canonical PHP interpreter as a de facto standard. Since 2014 work has gone on to create a formal PHP specification.[8]<br>
</p>
<p>
XAMPP is a free and open source cross-platform web server solution stack package developed by Apache Friends, consisting mainly of the Apache HTTP Server, MariaDB database, and interpreters for scripts written in the PHP and Perl programming languages.<br> XAMPP stands for Cross-Platform (X), Apache (A), MariaDB (M), PHP (P) and Perl (P). It is a simple, lightweight Apache distribution that makes it extremely easy for developers to create a local web server for testing and deployment purposes.<br>
Everything needed to set up a web server – server application (Apache), database (MariaDB), and scripting language (PHP) – is included in an extractable file. XAMPP is also cross-platform, which means it works equally well on Linux, Mac, and Windows.
</p>
<p style="text-align:center"> More information: <a href="http://simplyadvanced.net/blog/cheat-sheet-for-windows-command-prompt/">here</a></p>
</div>
<br>

# PHP 

## The Good Parts

<p style="text-align:center"> More information: <a target="_blank" href="https://www.codecademy.com/articles/command-line-commands">here</a></p>
