---
layout: post
title: OWASP Zed Attack Proxy
subtitle: Introduction to the OWASP ZAP Tool
---

<div style="border-bottom:1px solid black">

The <strong>O</strong>pen <strong>W</strong>eb <strong>A</strong>pplication <strong>S</strong>ecurity <strong>P</strong>roject (OWASP) is a worldwide not-for-profit charitable organization focused on improving the security of software.
<br> 
In the Application Security space, along with any technology marketplace, there needs to be an unbiased source of information on best practices as well as an active body advocating open standards. one of those groups is the Open Web Application Security Project.<br>
<br>
The <strong>Z</strong>ed <strong>A</strong>ttack <strong>P</strong>roxy (ZAP) is the OWASP Flagship Project and focuses on being an easy to use, integrated penetration testing tool for finding vulnerabilities in web applications.
<br>
It is designed to be used by people with a wide range of security experience and as such is ideal for developers and functional testers who are new to penetration testing as well as being a useful addition to an experienced pen testers toolbox.

 <p style="text-align:center"> More information on<a href="https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Main_Page"> OWASP</a></p>
 <p style="text-align:center"> More information on<a href="https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Zed_Attack_Proxy_Project"> ZAP</a></p>

</div>
<br>

<h2 style="text-align: center;" markdown="1">ZAP FUNDERMENTAL CONCEPTS</h2>

<br>
## Context
* A way of relating URLs together.
* Most commonly represent a web app (of part of).
<br>

<br>
## Session Management
* A scheme that defines how a web session is identified by the server and what happens in requests.
<br>

* __Examples:__ Cookie based, using query parameters.<br>

#### Implementations in ZAP UI:
* __Cookie-Based:__ usually this, j_sessionid, asp_sessionid, etc.
* __HTTP-Based:__ will have `authorization` in HTTP request/response header.
<br>

<br>
## Authentication Method
* Associated with a context.
* A scheme (user) that defines how a new session is established with a user, if needed.
* Logged in/ Logged out indicators:
	- Regex patterns matched in response messages.
	- Identify when a response is authenicated and when not.
	- Necessary for authentication (re)-authenication.
	- Only one is necessary.<br>
<br>

* __Examples:__ Classic usr/psw Form, HTTP Authentication, oAuth.<br>

#### Implementations in ZAP UI
* __Manual-Auth:__
	Authenticate in browser proxying through ZAP then using the built in http-sessions plugin, flag the active session and ZAP will automatically add that session_id too all request headers.
* __Form-Based-Auth:__
	When setup, ZAP will automatically send login GET or POST request for form based authentication.
* __HTTP/NTLM-Auth:__
	When authenticating or logging in via a host name, realm, and port.
<br>

<br>
## User Management
* Handles how the users of the web application that can be used for executing actions.
Users define the actual authentication credentials required in auth process.
<br>

* __Example:__ Username / Password key-value pairs.<br>

<br>

<br>







